Hello and welcome to this lesson on ML Services Overview. As we have already seen, Oracle is this portfolio of cloud services for helping organizations take advantage of all data for the next generation of scenarios. The foundations of AI services and ML services layer is data.

Obviously, AI and machine learning work on data and required it. The top layer of this diagram is applications and loosely refers to all the ways AI is consumed. This could be an application, a business process, or an analytics system. Between the application and data layer, you see two groups here-- the AI services on the top and the machine learning services on the bottom.

We have already seen about AI services in the lesson titled AI Services Overview. In this lesson, we are going to primarily focus on OCI Data Science as a part of machine learning services. So what is Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Science? OCI Data Science is the cloud service focused on serving the data scientists throughout the full machine learning life cycle, with support for Python and open source.

As you can see by icon in this graphic, the service has many features, such as model catalog, projects, JupyterLab Notebook, model deployment, model training, management, model explanation, open-source libraries, and AutoML. There are three core principles of OCI Data Science. The first one, accelerated. The first principle is about accelerating the work of the individual data scientist. OCI Data Science provides data scientists with open-source libraries, along with easy access to a range of compute power, without having to manage any infrastructure. It also includes Oracle's own library to help streamline many aspects of their work.

The second principle is collaborative. It goes beyond an individual data scientist's productivity to enable data science teams to work together. This is done through the sharing of assets, reducing duplicative work, and putting reproducibility and auditability of models for collaboration and risk management.

Third is enterprise grade. That means it's integrated with all the OCI security and access protocols. The underlying infrastructure is fully managed. The customer does not have to think about provisioning compute and storage. And the service handles all the maintenance, patching, and upgrades so user can focus on solving business problems with data science.

So having seen the core principles, let's drill down a bit more into the specifics of OCI Data Science. So again, what is OCI Data Science? It's a cloud service to rapidly build, train, deploy, and manage machine learning models. Whom does it serve? It serves data scientists and data science teams throughout the full machine learning life cycle, with support for Python and open source.

Where it is being used-- users work in a familiar JupyterLab Notebook interface, where they write Python code. And how it is used-- so users preserve their models in the model catalog and deploy their models to a managed infrastructure.

Some of the important product terminology of OCI Data Science are projects. The projects are containers that enables data science teams to organize their work. They represent collaborative workspaces for organizing and documenting data science assets such as notebook sessions and models.

Note that tenancy can have as many projects as needed without limits. Now this notebook session is where the data scientists work. Notebook sessions provide a JupyterLab environment with preinstalled open-source libraries and the ability to add others.

Notebook sessions are interactive coding environment for building and training models. Notebook sessions run in a managed infrastructure, and the user can select CPU or GPU, the compute shape, and amount of storage without having to do any manual provisioning.

The other important feature is Conda environment. It's an open-source environment and package management system and was created for Python programs. It is used in the service to quickly install, run, and update packages and their dependencies. Conda easily creates, saves, loads, and switches between environments in your notebook sessions.

The next one is Accelerated Data Science SDK. Oracle's Accelerated Data Science, ADS, SDK is a Python library that is included as part of OCI Data Science. ADS has many functions and objects that automate or simplify the steps in the Data Science workflow, including connecting to data, exploring and visualizing data, training a model with AutoML, evaluating models, and explaining models. In addition, ADS provides a simple interface to access the Data Science service, Model Catalog, and other OCI services, including Object Storage.

The next one is models. You already know what a model is. Models define a mathematical representation of your data and business process. You create models in notebooks, sessions, and side projects.

The next terminology is Model Catalog. The Model Catalog is a place to store, track, share, and manage models. The Model Catalog is a centralized and managed repository of model artifacts.

A stored model includes metadata about the provenance of the model, including Git-related information, and the script-- all notebook used to push the model to the catalog. Models stored in the Model Catalog can be shared across members of a team, and they can be loaded back into a notebook session.

The next one is model deployments. Model deployments allow you to deploy models stored in the Model Catalog as HTTP endpoints on managed infrastructure, deploying machine learning models as web applications, HTTP API endpoints. Serving predictions in real-time is the most common way to operationalize models. HTTP endpoints or the API endpoints are flexible and can serve requests for the model predictions. The last one which we are going to see here is jobs. Data Science jobs enable you to define and run a repeatable machine learning tasks on fully managed infrastructure.